You guys will come back to the course so in this lecture we're going to talk about your subcontracting
strategy and we're going to talk a little bit about what's the best path for you.
So before you start your journey of putting together a killer team and finally signing your first multimillion
dollar contract you need to sit down and have a little bit of a think about what you're subcontracting
strategy is going to be.
So let me give you a little bit of transparency about how freelancers and contractors are typically
divided up.
Now it's really helpful before you go and look for a subcontractor to know what you're going to expect
and to know exactly what you're looking for.
Now first off you're going to need to make a decision about price and language.
Now the reason why I say those together is because they're almost always related to each other.
There are some exceptions of course.
Now some contractors are going to be from countries you've never heard of and some contractors they're
going to be from probably down the street.
There's a big gap when we're talking about distance.
Now the same time some of them will be able to effectively communicate and communicate fluidly and other
ones are going to sound probably like drunk robots really hard to understand sometimes they speak like
remember Max speak that old software program you would use in elementary school.
Now a contractor with bad communication skills and an inconvenient time zone they're probably going
to be a lot cheaper.
Now obviously there's exceptions to this.
There are still expensive areas that have terrible language skills and terrible time zones.
But this is just a generalization.
Now a fluent English speaker who lives in the same exact time zone as you almost sometimes the same
city they're obviously going to be a lot more expensive.
Now how this relates to your business is that each type of contractor can dramatically change the dynamic
of how you deliver projects how you pitch your projects and how you find clients.
Now an expensive articulate contractor they're probably going to deliver much higher quality work but
they're also going to be considerably more expensive.
Now that for you means that you're gonna have to push higher prices to your clients and because your
rates are higher now all of a sudden your clients are going to expect a considerably higher standard
of project quality.
So in a lot of cases it can actually cancel itself out.
You charge more but the same time your clients ask for a lot more.
Now in this scenario you might have to cut your margins especially at the very beginning.
So if you go this route.
The key here is going to be your ability to land higher paying contracts that are also probably longer
term or you need to plan on having a strategy of using higher paying contractors but also having access
to other experts that you can bring in to really put that top polish on your products.
Now a cheaper lower cost contractor with poor English skills.
That means that you're going to have to compensate upfront with more effort from your end.
And also you might have to deal with lower product quality but in this scenario your margins are always
going to be a lot healthier.
And that allows you the option to undercut other providers.
So the key to this scenario is if you pick a lower cost option someone who is not as great at communicating
or explaining what they're doing or what needs to be done.
The key here is going to be whether or not you can manage them effectively enough to get a good product
because if you can do that then you're price to quality ratio is going to be fantastic.
Now in the scenario of a more articulate more qualified contractor is more expensive you're not going
to have to spend as much time with them which means you can spend more time on other things.
Now a low cost contractor it's going to be the opposite.
You're going to spend more time on project management.
So which one you want to go if you want to focus more on sales.
And then just knowing that your project is more or less covered or do you spend more time on project
management knowing that at the end of the day you make more money per project.
Now here's the key distinction for me and this is what I always use when making the decision or consulting
someone on how to make this decision.
Think about yourself and think about your experience.
Do you have a lot of experience working with contractors.
Do you have a lot of experience working with distributed teams.
Do you speak another language potentially.
Do you have any experience being a project manager.
How much experience do you have in web development and web development projects.
If you have a lot of experience and answer yes to a lot of the questions I just asked you then you're
a very good candidate for someone who can use the low cost high margin option.
Now if you're under developed in this kind of area then it might make more sense for you to focus on
higher paid contractors who can deal with more have more autonomy and you focus more on sales.
So now one other division that you need to be aware of and you need to make a decision about is whether
or not you hire a freelancer or a firm an individual or company.
Now if you're coming from my outsourcing course you know that we covered this like to death but for
this course I'm just going to simplify it.
So one firms come with what are called management layers.
This provides transparency and this provides a counter ability for your project it also offloads the
work from you on to them when it comes to day to day management because of this they're much less likely
to disappear.
They're much less likely to run into problems and if they do run into problems they're more capable
of solving it on their own before pulling you into the project.
Now on the flip side they come at a much higher price tag because you're not just paying for your developer
you're also paying for the project manager or whoever ends up managing them and also firms always have
a profit line.
Also keep in mind that firms are slower to move.
They have a lot more people in the organization.
They can't just drop everything and pick up whatever you need at this moment that you want it now.
Individuals are going to be considerably cheaper and considerably more flexible.
However you are the last line of defense in case anything goes wrong.
They get sick or any problem arises.
They're going to require a lot more management time from you.
So again when considering this division it really just comes down to experience.
Now if you're confident you can turn a low cost freelancer or a contractor into high quality work and
you know you have experience and you know you kind of had your stripes in this field then you definitely
can go for an outsourced freelancer.
Now if you're new to this and you want to focus a little bit more on the sales the branding the marketing
the promotion pretty much everything else that's involved in running a web development business.
Then you might want to choose higher paid more capable better communicating freelancers.
You also probably want to lean towards a firm because you will benefit the most from having that management
layer that we talked about.
You might want to also focus on someone who has similar time zones to you.
That's going to allow you to communicate more effectively and not have this like in-between time where
you can't communicate with your contractor.
Now you don't always have to stay this way over time as you get more experience working with your web
projects.
You can transition into working with individuals and working with people who are in different time zones
in different countries and then you can kind of get the best of both worlds.
But at the beginning it's really helpful to know which one you should go for now.
And obviously there are in-between options you just need to understand.
It's kind of like a spectrum right.
Certain people are better for using firm certain people are better for freelancers certain people or
better for outsource labor and certain people are better for in in country near the same time zone types
of contractors.
Obviously the place where you create the most value for your client is when you're picking subcontractors
and you look for what other people call like the diamond in the rough.
And what that basically means is you look for and this is gets much easier as you have more experience.
You look for people where their price compared to their communication buildings compared to their capabilities
something is just off.
And so a lot of times you look for people who are undervalued.
They're cheaper compared to how good they are or they're really good compared to how cheap they are
over time with enough experience.
You can start to mix and match and you can create whatever funky configuration you can at the beginning
though it's easier.
Think of it kind of in this one two solution.
All right guys I'll see you the next lecture.